# lab2a

## Q1

### Q:

In raft implementation, if a server in candidate status, and get a AppendEntry request and the term in the request is
less than the server's current term(the term is being in the process of voting), should the server set this term as the
response term of AppendEntry

### A:

Based on the Raft consensus algorithm, if a server is in candidate state and receives an AppendEntries RPC request with
a term number less than the candidate's current term, the server should reject the request by responding with its
current (higher) term number.

Specifically, the Raft algorithm specifies that servers should reply false to AppendEntries requests if the term in the
request is less than the server's current term. This is done to prevent a leader from an old term erroneously thinking
it is still the leader in a new term.

The key steps when a candidate receives an AppendEntries request from a leader with a lower term are:

1. The candidate checks if the term in the request is less than its current term number.

2. If so, the candidate rejects the AppendEntries request by responding false.

3. The candidate includes its current (higher) term number in the response.

4. When the current leader gets the rejection with the higher term number, it will step down and revert back to follower
   state.

5. The candidate will then continue to seek votes in its election until it either wins the election or a new leader with
   a higher term emerges.

So in summary, the candidate should always respond with its current higher term number when rejecting AppendEntries
requests from lower terms. This ensures the algorithm converges on the server with the most up-to-date information as
the leader.

## Q2

### Q:

what if the candidate in my above question just recovering from the crash, and the leader is indeed the latest leader of
majority. And if the just recovered server in minority start a election with higher term number (become in candidate
status), and it received AppendEntry request, as per your above description, the leader will found his leader term is
less than the response term from the candidate then yield to follower, is this effect correct(it caused the majority
leader yield it's leadership and the cluster have to reelect)

### A:

You're right, in that specific scenario where a recovering minority server starts an election with a higher term number,
it could accidentally cause the current leader to step down if the leader receives a rejection with a higher term.

The key things to consider in this case are:

- The recovering server should not increment the term number unnecessarily. It should only do so if it has not heard
  from a current leader after the election timeout.

- The current leader should not immediately step down on receiving one higher term rejection. It should retry
  AppendEntries RPCs to confirm if there is a new leader.

- Other servers in the majority will not vote for the minority candidate, so it will not get elected.

- The cluster will likely reconverge back to the majority leader, or the majority could elect a new leader.

So while it is possible for a recovering minority server to accidentally cause churn, there are multiple safety
mechanisms in Raft to ensure the cluster overall will re-establish a leader with the most up-to-date logs:

- Majority voting prevents minority candidates from getting elected.

- Leaders don't immediately step down, but verify if there is a new leader first.

- Election timeouts are randomized to avoid repeated disruptive elections.

- Log matching ensures outdated logs get overwritten.

So in most cases, the cluster will quickly reconverge to the majority again. But you're right, it is a scenario to be
aware of in maintaining overall system availability. The core safety guarantees are still upheld.

## Q3

### Q:

In handler of RequestVote or AppendEntry, if the term in the request is higher than the current term, as per the paper,
I should set the current term as the higher term. So, in the response, which term should in return, the old term or the
term in the request?

### A:

If a server receives a RequestVote or AppendEntries RPC request with a term number higher than its current term, the
server should update its current term to the higher term according to the Raft consensus algorithm.

In the response, the server should return the new, higher term number back to the requester.

Here are the key steps:

1. Server receives RPC request with term T.

2. Server sees term T > its current term.

3. Server updates its current term to T.

4. Server sends response to RPC, including the new current term T.

So the response should contain the new higher term T, not the server's old term. This allows the requester (the
candidate or leader sending the RPC) to also update to the newest term if it gets a response with a higher term.

The key thing is that both the requester and responder end up on the same newest term after the RPC exchange. The
responder adopts the newer term from the request, and returns that newest term in the response. This ensures the term
numbers converge to the latest value.

So in summary, if a server sees a higher term in an RPC request, it adopts that new term and returns the new term in the
response. This allows all servers to converge on the latest term.

